
Since I was 12 years old I have always known computers. My dad bought for the family an Amiga 500, he used it for graphics work, me and my brother mainly gaming in our 4 bedroom house in Sun Valley, Cape Town. At the time it was pretty state of the art. I began exploring coding in BASIC, and was fortunate enough to borrow the compendium books of Borland C++ from my uncle who was working for IBM at the time. Years later I studied computer science formally, it was a one year intensive course in Systems design, using Cobol and later Pascal. Looking back I realised I had trained in a fairly dated tech stack, but was able to use my Pascal skills in the up and coming OOP language Delphi. It had a great DX in the sense much if it was visual. drag and drop components, which was quite forward thinking in the mid 1990s. I got my first developer job as a developer for a boutique software development agency called Real Systems. They are still running, having changed their name to Khanyisa Real Systems. During my time there I moved from Delphi work to Java. No one was really using it yet in production and I was one of a few toying with it. One of the things we tried to make it do, bear in mind this is Java 1.x., was to build a library which could communicate a front end medical form in XML via SOAP/XML-RPC. Rest only reached us in early 2000s. Out of sheer frustration not able to get this tech to work for me, and a desire to explore my part time work as a medic more, I left and began my second career working as a full time medic for the ambulance service, moving abroad to London, UK working for an international assistance company, studying political science and working for a number of international organisations in the field of international security risk management. 

Around 2016 I again felt I had achieved what I wanted in the career of international security, and had a desire to reclaim my time and space, and had seen software engineers were increasingly able to work remotely on their own schedule. I began re-exploring software development again, initially just with a mild curiosity, I took a number of MOOC courses, thought I would start with Scala, seemed like a Java friendly language, 


Describe here your journey to how you got to where you are now, include the programming from 1990s, borrowing your uncles Borland C++ manuals, then studying in Cobol, and Pascal, and Systems design, your first developer job as a Delphi programmer, then being frustrated by the Java ability to make reasonable SOAP requests over XML-RPC (Reasearch this a bit). At the same time as a volunteer medic and fire fighter, left full time ambulance service, moved aborad and migrated into international politics and security. 2016 turning point felt a strong desire to own more of my space and time, with family. Coding was a sensible route. The final push came during covid when it became evident that coding really is a way out of the office melodrama. Started with Scala, natural evolution from Java, then jumped every year since 2016 to try different languages, explored Haskell, Javascript, Typescript, Python, and most recently Go. Comfortable using the languages Typescript, Python and Golang. 